Many games, of which [[Melvor Idle]] is one, just seem to have "magic". It's something ineffable and possibly unknowable that makes them compelling to play and stand out from their peers. I'm a believer that this phenomenon is highly un-modelable and any theories people have about it are just-so stories that when used to create other games that *should* have the magic, just don't. 

Indeed it's a much-repeated occurrence for a game to get copied and lose something in the translation. What folks thought was the core of the fun turns out not to be, when that same core is reproduced in a new form. When I play a game that lacks the magic I find myself setting it down in minutes if not seconds. I often can't put my finger on what exactly is wrong but the magic just isn't there.

Keeping in mind the fact that this is not a scientific or measureable quality, it's obvious it must be highly contextual to the person playing and their mood or situation. For some folks a game will have the magic and for others it won't; but I think we can still say a game has it or not on a flimsy statistical basis of some kind. Naturally it also follows that what gives a game its magic is not one specific thing but could be any number of things in any combination depending on the observer. I'm very open-minded about what things could be surprisingly important.
* Little UI details, like what information is presented on screen. I think that for all game UXs, from indie ones like Melvor to over designed ones like the League client, happenstance and whim of the designer and coder can either give a strong injection of or have a big lack of what makes the game delightful.
* Fundamental but perhaps not agonized over decisions like [[Wide vs Tall stacks]]
