# How is Melvor Idle like a garden?
When trying to explain why I like [[Melvor Idle]] so much to YY I liken it to tending a garden.

* Gardens are always growing, and every day you wake up and see some new plants in bloom. In Melvor as the days go by you see your skills grow, your bank account, etc. And it all happens mostly without your input.
* Gardens can surprise you, but not too much. Maybe a flower didn't bloom in quite the color your expected, or it grew or died faster than expected. And in Melvor you know what you left yourself idling on, but often are surprised or disappointed by just how much Exp or resource you got when you check back in. Or maybe you are delighted because something rare dropped.
* Gardens let you express yourself creatively, within certain bounds. Obviously you can't dream up totally new types of flowers, and are very limited by your climate, budget, and space you have for your garden. Still, you can choose what types from a limited selection, which to grow this year vs. next year, etc. And in Melvor you can choose what to level first and are rewarded with a unique journey to tell to others or just appreciate on your own.
* Gardens need weeding, but they never horribly punish you for being lazy about it either. They'll do better if you weed diligently, but something interesting will happen either way. And in Melvor there are a lot of activities I would consider weeding, from monitoring and cleaning out your bank to ensuring your mastery points are spent before they hit the cap, to keeping your food stock up for combat.

# How could our game be more like a garden?
* One thing Melvor lacks perhaps is seasons. Gardens go through Winter, when everything dies and perhaps you have just a few hardy plants to attend to and your main job is clearing out dead ones. To Spring when you must make important decisions about what to plant and do the planting. To Summer when everything is in full bloom and you are most rewarded. To Fall when perhaps some new types of plants are available to grow. In Melvor there's not really anything like that and I'm not sure how there could be. Would seasons correspond to real time, lasting days or weeks? But that would not suit the sedate pace we're going for. Would the metaphorical seasons happen in game when you cross certain thresholds?